docs: update 'Authentication & Authorization' page (#1516)
cube-js/cube.js: docs/content/Authentication-&-Authorization.md

menuOrder: 1
---

> In Cube.js, access control or authorization is based on the **security context**. The diagram below shows how it works during the request processing in Cube.js:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Cube.js, authorization (or access control) is based on the **security context**. The diagram below shows how it works during the request processing in Cube.js:
```

<p
  style="text-align: center"
>
  <img
  src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/statsbotco/cube.js/master/docs/content/authentication-overview.png"
  style="border: none"
  width="80%"
  />
</p>

> Authentication is handled outside of Cube.js. Your auth server issues JWTs to your client app, which, when sent as part of the request, are verified and decoded by the Cube.js to get security context claims to evaluate access control rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Authentication is handled outside of Cube.js. Your authentication server issues JWTs to your client application, which, when sent as a part of the request, are verified and decoded by Cube.js to get security context claims and evaluate access control rules.
```

I suggest that we never use such contractions as "auth" (confusing) and "app" (unprofessional) in our docs.

> For access control or authorization, Cube.js allows you to define granular access control rules for evey cube in your data schema. Cube.js uses request and the security context claims in the JWT token to generate a SQL query, which includes row-level constraints from the access control rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For access control or authorization, Cube.js allows you to define granular access control rules for every cube in your data schema. Cube.js uses the request and the security context claims in the JWT token to generate a SQL query, which includes row-level constraints from the access control rules.
```

Cube.js uses [JSON Web Tokens (JWT)][link-jwt] which should be passed in the
`Authorization: <JWT>` header to authenticate requests.

> JWTs can also be used to pass additional information about the user, known as a [security context][link-security-context]. It must be stored inside the **u** namespace. It will be accessible in the

Reviewer 2: I think that the concept of "namespaces" is quite confusing because we don't explain much about them. It comes literally out of thin air. Can we explain what these namespaces are? Maybe a single sentence will work.

- With security context, which will allow you to implement role-based security
  models where users will have different levels of access to data.

[[info | ]]

> | It is considered best practice to use an `exp` expiration claim to limit the life time of your public tokens. [Learn more at JWT docs][link-jwt-docs].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| It is considered a best practice to use an `exp` expiration claim to limit the life time of your public tokens. [Learn more in the JWT docs][link-jwt-docs].
```

## Security Context

A "security context" is a verified set of claims about the current user that the

> Cube.js server can use to ensure that users only have access to the data that

Reviewer 2: @hassankhan Can we have some linter rules for frequently used names such as "Cube.js" (vs "cube.js", "CubeJS", etc.)?

Reviewer: @igorlukanin Definitely on the agenda 😄
